Okay, so I've talked a lot about
the Vue CLI and why it's awesome.
There are many other things
that we can go into, I mean,
people have whole workshops and
stuff dedicated to this.
But I also want to acknowledge the fact
that Vue CLI is not perfect for
every scenario.
Like a lot of things we discussed today,
there are gonna be times where the things
I'm recommending won't necessarily
make sense given your context and
the problem you're trying to solve.
And so the main examples when it comes to
alternative to Vue CLI is for example,
micro-frontends.
This is becoming more of a big thing as we
have a lot of legacy architecture that it
already works but let's say you only need
a little bit of dynamic functionality.
Migrating your whole app or building all
of it n Vue CLI would honestly be overkill
and so in that case I would recommend
using the CDN import as well.
Think of it like a jQuery import, you drop
in the helper function and then you make
the little bit on your application that
needs to have that view functionality and
then leave the rest alone.
So micro-frontends are a great
example where typically Vue CLI's
not the best use case.
Another example where Vue CLI doesn't
make sense is for legacy migrations.
So I know a lot of people we deal with
legacy code bases that have been on Ruby
on Rails or you know,
some PHP framework for a long time.
And so, a lot of us as developers want
to leverage the latest and greatest but
what happens is that when we do that, a
lot of times it doesn't align necessarily
with product because they
want to ship new features and
they need to get stuff to the users.
And so in those scenarios,
rather than saying, hey, can we stop
feature development for a month while we
migrate our legacy app to Vue, right?
Most stakeholders are not going to
buy into that because again, that's
a developer ergonomic and so they're
not as concerned with those things.
Instead, what you can do is this is where
the CDN is extremely useful, because you
can bring on the CDN package of Vue
just like you would in a micro-frontend.
And this way,
you would slowly build features with Vue,
basically progressively migrating the
legacy app over time until it makes sense,
when you have basically most of the pieces
put together and most of the thing in Vue.
Then you can probably make the case that,
hey if we just spent a week or
two on this,
a few of the developers can go ahead and
actually move it over to Vue CLI and
we'll have the full build pipeline.
And if you're wondering,
does that really work at scale?
100% it does, because Git lab is probably
the proverbial example at this point of
doing this, because they were
on Ruby on Rails system, and
they needed to migrate over so, or
sorry, they wanted to migrate over.
And what they did is exactly that,
they dropped in the CDN and just kept
progressively migrating certain pages,
and not even just pages, certain pieces
on the page until one day, a lot of pieces
of Git lab are actually on Vue CLI now.
So it does work at scale.
And finally, when it comes to things
like server-side rendering, and
you basically need more assistance on this
piece, this is where instead of Vue CLI,
I would highly recommend
checking out Nuxt.
And so Sarah Dresdner has her introduction
to Nuxt course that you can check out on
frontend masters.
But Nuxt is definitely a framework to keep
in mind as far as an awesome framework
that takes what already
makes Vue great and
then gives you even more built-in things.
That allow you to focus on building a cool
application, but then taking care of
things like server-side rendering,
progressive web apps those sort of things.
So definitely check that
out as an alternative.
So the question we have here is,
how do I feel about Vite?
So also some people pronounce it Vite,
I guess a little bit of trivia,
is that like Vue it's based on a French
word, and Vite in French means fast.
And so Evan's been working on
a new project called Vite.
Which is basically, an ESM bundler that
allows you to basically compile your
application and just a different way of
approaching Build Tools, rather than say,
for example, Webpack.
And so while Vite and to be honest,
I think a lot of frameworks
are exploring this concept right now.
It lacks the, it's still a new
idea that people are pushing and
trying out the limits on.
But a lot of times when it comes
to enterprise level applications,
let's face it,
we have a lot of dependencies.
And while it be great to be on
the cutting edge of things,
we do need things to be stable.
So I think for anyone looking to do,
again, if you're talking about
production grade level apps.
I would recommend sticking with Webpack,
because the ecosystem is very solid
there's a lot of support for it.
But as far as like side projects and
playing around with Vite and
other sort of build tools that can
take render time down from seconds to
hundreds of milliseconds,
definitely worth playing around with.
But as far as production app goes I don't
think it's quite at that level yet.
>> Is the Vue CLI extendable?
So if our organization
wanted to make our own
configuration that we wanted to replicate.
>> So the question here is,
is Vue CLI extendable?
And so yep, the short answer is yes.
When it comes it comes to Vue CLI,
basically think of it as the preset,
that allows you to do what
you mostly want to do, right?
Which solves most of your use cases but
at the end of the day,
it still has a Webpack underneath, and
you can extend upon the configuration,
to whether do custom imports,
or reconfigure things.
And so true to Vue's ethos we wanna
give you just enough to get you up and
running for most of the scenarios
you're solving for, but
in case you need an escape hatch at
Vue CLI can totally allow you to do that.
>> Is Vite comparable is Snowpack?
>> Another question we have is regarding
Vite and whether it's similar to Snowpack.
And so yeah, after listening to one
of Evan taught recently, yeah, so
both of them were kind of conceived in
parallel without knowing the existence of
one another.
So yeah, Snowpack is another example
of another sort of exploration
of what it'll be like to use ESM as
a primary build rather than Webpack.
So as additional clarification to the
question regarding the extensibility of
Vue CLI, the scenario being presented
is that what if we wanted to
actually constrain down the options,
right?
So, let me switch over.
So one of the things we have
here in the Vue CLI is that, so
the scenario here is that when
you create a new project,
that there are basically different
presets, so let me just do MVC again.
So basically defining the various
presets that are available so
this can be done out of the box.
In the event you wanna basically
define what goes in here, so
that they can't choose their own.
And then to the extent that if
someone needs to configure what
options are actually
included in the Vue CLI.
Vue CLI it is open source repo, so
I don't see any reason why you
couldn't force the repo and
then have basically people install
your company's version of the Vue CLI.
That would then at least touch updates but
then you can configure the pieces that you
might wanna necessarily
maybe restrict down.
So something l wanted to mention
an extension of our discussion regarding
extensibility of the Vue CLI is to mention
that it's actually a plug in architecture
with Vue CLI.
That l sort of mentioned it in the modern
mode, sorry, when l was in the Vue UI.
But basically what Vue CLI
offers when it comes to plug
ins is it allows you to have basically
have default ways of installing thing.
And so you would simply run in this case,
so you can see in the docs example for
Vue Router you would do Vue add Router.
And what that would do is not simply just
NPM install the Vue Router but it'll
actually go ahead and scuffle different
pieces for you as far as what it does.
So just to demo this actually,
I think it'll be easier if there's
a sort of a visual example of this.
So here for example, right,
we have our production grade view repo and
let's say we wanted to add TypeScript.
Now typically what you might do is
you go NPM, install TypeScript,
create your Ts config, and
you have to make sure the Vue plugin knows
how to watch all your types of builds.
But it's actually a lot easier than
this with Vue CLI's plugin architecture,
you can go vue at typescript.
And so it's gonna go through and
the plugin architecture allows you to
do this sort of further extensibility.
So you can write your own and
those sort of things but
you can see here that it allows me
some options for the plugin, right?
So in this case,
I don't want class style syntax, yep,
give me Babel and can go ahead and
convert my GS file to TS, sure,
go ahead and do that for me,
and allow GS to be compiled.
You can see that capital N is the default,
so I'm gonna go ahead and say no as well.
And then skip type checking of all
declaration file is gonna go ahead and
do that, so that's recommended.
And then so it's going to go ahead and
invoke the generator, install all
the various dependencies, you need to make
sure that it works with Vue properly.
And then what you're gonna see here now is
that we actually have had a bunch of our
files change.
Vue has not only gone in and created
things like our tsconfig, which for
anyone who's configured
tsconfig from scratch,
it's actually a decent amount of work and
a decent breath of an API to learn.
On top of that, it goes ahead and
make sure that various things exists,
inside of review app.
So you can see that here's the shim
file that allows it to tell typescript
more about what doc view files are,
for example.
It's already converted all of our
JavaScript files to TS, for example.
And it scaffolded even our Hello World
here to already swap out the language
into the TS and then already use the
defined component which we need in order
to work with TypeScript when
it comes to our components.
So these are things that the plugin
architecture allows you to do as far
as extending the functionality and
also helping to,
for example, like define conventions.
Per the situation we brought up earlier
regarding a company wanted more defined
conventions regarding how things are done.
So, hopefully that's helpful.